Add docs for bloop interaction (#2608)
VirtusLab/scala-cli: website/docs/reference/bloop.md

Reviewer: maybe move this whole file to `commands`? since we have dedicated bloop `--power` ⚡ commands?

sidebar_position: 10
---

Scala CLI by default uses Bloop as a build server for compiling code. This approach has its advantages over the `scalac` compiler such as advanced caching and fast compile times, but the process is more complex.
Fortunately for the users, Scala CLI fully manages the Bloop build server. This includes its whole lifecycle, which starts with fetching the artifacts.
This document will go through this lifecycle and the interactions that Scala CLI has with Bloop.
:::tip

> As a user you can also take part in this interaction, using the `bloop` subcommand. More information in the [commands reference](../reference/commands.md#bloop).

Reviewer: I'd make this the `bloop` commands doc, instead of sending the user to the reference

However, if the server is offline then Scala CLI needs to start and configure it.

The configuration file for Bloop is created after analyzing the options collected from command line flags and using directives.
The default location of the file is `.scala-build/bloop/project_name.json`.

The last thing before launching the server is downloading its artifacts from Maven Central via Coursier if they are not already present in the local cache.
:::tip
When working in an environment with restricted access to the web, using Bloop can be disabled with the `--server=false` flag. Also, see the [section about the Offline mode](../guides/offline.md).
:::

Bloop is started as a separate JVM process, parameters of this process can be configured using arguments passed to the invoked subcommand ([see compilation server options](cli-options.md#compilation-server-options)).
They also depend on the JVM version chosen for building the project, it cannot be higher than the version of the JVM running Bloop. If such a case is detected, the build server has to be restarted with a sufficiently high JVM.

> Note that the default version of the JVM for Bloop is 17, so if your `JAVA_HOME` contains something with a lower version Scala CLI will fetch the needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the default version of the JVM for Bloop is 17, so if your `JAVA_HOME` refers to an older version of Java, Scala CLI will fetch the one you need. You can also override the JVM version Bloop runs on with the `--bloop-jvm` option
```
